Behind the sliding glass door of Makers Academy in Shoreditch, east London, one afternoon in early October, 
an inhouse yoga teacher was leading a group of casually dressed young men and women in an afternoon meditation. 
With its ping-pong table, hammock and stash of Nerf guns, Makers looks like every digital startup cliche. But it is a 
coding bootcamp, where adults who want to change careers pay £8,000 for a three-month crash course that promises 
to equip them for jobs in a digital world. Only half-joking, many refer to it as “Oxbridge meets the Royal Marines for
 developers”. Nine out of 10 applicants are rejected – the academy’s profit comes from a levy on employers who hire 
its students, so it takes only those considered employable. Anyone who is judged not to be working hard enough is 
ejected in the first few weeks, which culls about another fifth. The survivors sit at long banks of screens, where they 
are supposed to spend nine hours a day learning to program computers, although most choose to stay long into the 
night, practising what they have learned. They work in pairs to bounce ideas off each other and, although there is a 
helpdesk for those stuck on complex coding problems, there is no teacher to give instructions. The idea is to encourage 
self-sufficiency and the ability to muddle through with peers, as they will have to do when they reach the workplace. 
Every now and then, from an office in the loft, comes the sound of a gong being struck: the signal that another Makers
 graduate has just landed a job. Related: Why every child should learn to code “Everyone should learn how to program 
a computer, because it teaches you how to think.” It is now 20 years since Steve Jobs said those words, in an interview
 unearthed and released two years after his death. Last year, Britain became the first G7 country to introduce compulsory
 computer science on the school curriculum for all children aged five to 16. By the age of seven, all children will now be 
expected to be capable of writing and debugging a simple program. By 11, some will be exploring computing concepts 
once considered appropriate for undergraduates. The idea that mastering code is as essential to a successful start in life 
as numeracy and literacy is starting to take hold of British parents. Christmas stockings this year will be stuffed with 
“smart toys” – brightly coloured programmable plastic robots, apps and even board games that promise to give kids a
 head start on coding. How do you make toast? is a frequent interview question. The ideal answer is close to one a robot 
could understand Since 2013, more than 140 million adults worldwide have downloaded a starter coding lesson from the 
industry-funded Hour of Code, a non-profit initiative that aims to increase access to coding skills. What is rather less clear, 
however, is how many finished and how many gave up halfway through. Learning to code, especially later in life, is not easy. 

